Talks about learning technology often center on technology.
So instead, I'd like to begin by asking:
What do you want learning to be like
for yourself? If you could just snap your
fingers and have the ideal perfect learning environment,
what would that be like? One way to
start getting at this question is to ask,
what were the most rewarding high growth periods
of your life? I've noticed two patterns when
I ask people this question. First, people will
tell me about a period in their life
where they learned a ton, but where learning
wasn't the point. Instead, they were totally immersed
in some project with a great deal of
personal meaning, like a scrappy startup or a
research project or an artistic urge or just
a fiery curiosity. And a lot of learning
happened just along the way. They learned whatever
they needed. They dove in. They got their
hands dirty. Secondly, in these stories, learning really
worked. People emerged feeling transformed, newly capable, filled
with insights that remained with them years later.
These stories are so vivid in part because
learning rarely feels this way. People are often
telling me somewhat wistfully about an experience that
occurred years or decades earlier. Learning rarely feels
so subordinated to an authentic pursuit. Often if
we try to just dive in, we dive
into a brick wall, or we find ourselves
uneasily cargo culting others without any real understanding
of what's actually going on. So why can't
we just dive in all the time? Instead,
it often feels like we have to put
our aims on hold while we go do
some homework and learn properly. And worse, learning
so often just doesn't really work. We take
the class, we read the book, And then
when we try to put that knowledge into
practice, we find that it's fragile. It doesn't
transfer well. Worse, we'll often find that we've
forgotten half of it by the time we
try to use it. Why does learning so
often fail to actually work? These questions connect
to an age old conflict among educators and
learning scientists between implicit learning, also known as
discovery learning, inquiry learning, situated learning, and guided
learning, which is often represented by cognitive scientists
of the kind we find here at UCSD.
Advocates of implicit learning methods argue that we
should prioritize discovery, motivation, authentic involvement, and being
situated in a community of practice. In the
opposing camp, cognitive psychologists argue that you really
do need to pay attention to the architecture
of cognition, to long term memory, to procedural
fluency, and to scaffold appropriately for cognitive load.
In my view, each of these of view
contains a lot of truth. And they also
ignore each other to their detriment. Implicit learning
aptly recognizes meaning and emotion but ignores the
often decisive constraints of cognition what we need
to actually make learning work. Guided learning advocates
are focused on making learning work, and they
sometimes succeed, but usually by sacrificing that purposeful
sense of immersion that we love about those
rewarding high growth periods. One obvious approach is
to try compromise. Project based learning is a
good representation of that. By creating a scaffolded
series of projects, the suggestion is that we
can get some of the benefits of implicit
learning authenticity, motivation, transferability while also getting the
instructional control and the cognitive awareness that might
be typical of traditional courses. The trouble is
that usually we get the worst of both
worlds. I remember when I was in college,
I was interested in three d game programming,
so I signed up for a project based
course on computer graphics. The trouble was that
those projects weren't my projects. So a few
weeks in, I ended up implementing array marching
for more efficient bump mapping. And unfortunately, I
was really just implementing some math that I
was handed because this course was trying to
take project based learning seriously. So there weren't
long textbook readings, weren't long problem sets. But
I didn't understand the math. What I ended
up with was a project that I didn't
care about implementing something I didn't understand. Instead,
I suggest, we should take both views seriously.
Find a way to synthesize the two. You
really do want to make doing the thing
the primary activity. But the realities of cognitive
psychology mean that in many cases, you really
do need explicit guidance, scaffolding, practice, intention and
memory support. Learning by immersion works naturalistically when
the material has a low enough complexity relative
to your prior knowledge that you can successfully
process it on the fly and when natural
participation routinely reinforces everything important, giving you fluency.
When those conditions aren't satisfied, which is most
of the time, you will need some support.
You want to just dive in. And you
want learning to actually work. To make that
happen, we need to infuse your authentic projects
with guided support, where necessary, inspired by the
best ideas from cognitive science. And if there's
something that requires more focused, explicit learning, then
you want those experiences to be utterly in
service to your actual aims. Now I've been
thinking about this synthesis for many years, and
honestly, I've mostly been pretty stuck. Recently though,
I've been thinking a lot about AI, which
I know gets an eye roll. Certainly every
mention of AI in education gets an eye
roll from me. But I confess, the possibility
of AI has helped me finally get what
feels like some traction on this particular problem.
So I'd like to share some of those
early concepts today. We'll explore this possible synthesis
through a story in six parts. Meet Sam.
Sam studied computer science in university, and they're
now working as a software engineer at a
big tech company. But Sam is bored at
their day job. Not everything is boring, though.
Every time Sam sees a tweet announcing new
results in brain computer interfaces, they're absolutely captivated.
These projects seem so much more interesting than
what they're doing by day. Sam pulls up
the papers looking for some way to contribute,
but they hit a brick wall with so
many unfamiliar topics all at once. What if
Sam could ask for help finding some meaningful
way to start participating? With Sam's permission, our
AI, and let's assume it's a local AI,
can build up a huge amount of context
about their background. From old documents on Sam's
hard drive, our AI knows all about their
university coursework. It can see their current skills
through work projects. It knows something about Sam's
interests through their browsing history. So it suggests
a few ideas, and Sam is excited about
the idea of reproducing the paper's data analysis.
That seems to play to their strengths. They
notice that the authors use a custom Python
package to do their analysis, but that code
was never published. And that seems intriguing. Sam
has built open source tools before. Maybe they
could contribute here by building an open source
version of this signal processing pipeline. So Sam
dives in. They've found an open access dataset,
and they've taken the first steps to start
working with it. Tools like Copilot help Sam
get started. But to follow some of these
signal processing steps, what Sam really needs here
is something like Copilot, but with awareness of
the paper in addition to the code and
with context about what Sam's actually trying to
do. This AI system isn't trapped in its
own chat box or in the sidebar of
one application. It can see what's going on
across multiple applications, and it can propose actions
across multiple applications. Sam can click that button
to view a change set with the potential
implementation. Here that is. And then they can
continue the conversation, smoothly switching into the context
of the code editor. Like, what is this
axis equals one parameter? The explanation depends on
context from the code editor, from the paper
being implemented, and also the documentation that came
with the data set Sam's working with. The
AI underlines assumptions made based on specific information
and turns those things into links. So Sam
can click on that in this dataset link,
and our AI opens the ReadMe to the
relevant line. All this is to support our
central aim, which is that Sam can immerse
themselves as much as possible in what they're
actually trying to do, but get the support
they need to understand what they're doing. And
that support doesn't have to just mean text.
Sam next needs to implement a downsampling stage.
And this time, guidance includes synthesized dynamic media
so that Sam can understand what downsampling does
through scaffolded immersion. Doesn't need to read an
abstract explanation and try to imagine what that
would do to different signals. Instead, as they
try different sampling rates, real time feedback can
help them internalize the effect on different signals.
By playing with the dynamic media, Sam notices
that some of the peaks are lost when
the signal is downsampled. These dynamic media aren't
trapped in the chat box. They're using the
same input data and libraries that Sam is
using in their notebook. So at any time,
Sam can just view source to tinker with
this figure or to use some of its
code in their own notebook. Now Sam presses
on. But as they dig into bandpass filters,
the high level explanations they can get from
these short chat interactions really just don't feel
like enough. What is a frequency domain? What
is a Nyquist rate? Sam can copy and
paste some AI generated code all day, but
they don't understand what's going on at all.
A chat interface is just not a great
medium for long form conceptual explanation. It's time
here for something deeper. Now, our AI knows
Sam's background and aims here, so it suggests
an appropriate undergraduate text with a practical focus.
And more importantly, the AI reassures Sam that
they don't necessarily need to read this entire
thousand page book right now. It focuses on
Sam's goal here and suggests a range of
accessible paths that Sam can choose according to
how deeply they would like to understand this
material. The AI has made a personal map
in the book's table of contents so that
if Sam, for instance, just wants to understand
what these filters are doing and why, there's
a 25 page path for that. But if
they want to know the mathematical background how
these filters work, there's a deeper path. And
if they want to actually be able to
implement them themselves, there's an even deeper path.
You can choose a journey here. When Sam
digs into the book, you'll find notes from
the AI at the start of each section
and scattered throughout, which ground the material in
Sam's context, Sam's project, Sam's purpose. This section
will help you understand how to think about
signals in terms of frequency spectra. That's what
low pass filters manipulate. Sam is spending some
time away from their project in a more
traditionally instructional setting. But that doesn't mean the
experience has to lose its connection to their
authentic purpose. Incidentally, I've heard some technologists suggest
that we should just use AI to synthesize
the whole book. We'll get per person bespoke
textbooks. But I think that there's actually a
huge amount of value in having shared canonical
artifacts. In any given field, there are key
texts that we can all point to, and
they form a common ground for the culture.
I think we can preserve that by layering
personalized context on top as a lens like
this. In my ideal future, of course, our
canonical shared artifacts are dynamic media, not digital
representations of dead trees. But until all of
our canonical works are rewritten as a transitional
measure, we can at least wave our hands
and imagine that our AI could synthesize dynamic
media versions of figures like this one. Now,
as Sam reads through the book, they can
continue to engage with the text by asking
questions as before, and our AI's responses will
continue to be grounded in their project. As
Sam highlights the text or makes comments about
details which seem particularly important or surprising, those
annotations won't end up trapped inside the PDF.
Instead, they will feed into future discussions and
practice, as we'll see later. In addition to
Sam asking questions of the AI, the AI
can insert questions for Sam to consider, again
grounded in their project, to promote deeper processing
of the material. And just as our AI
guided Sam to the right sections of this
thousand page book, it can point out which
exercises might be most valuable, considering both Sam's
background and their aims. Better, it can connect
the exercises to Sam's aims so that aspirationally,
doing those problems feels continuous with Sam's authentic
practice. Even if the exercises do still feel
somewhat decontextualized, Sam can at least feel more
confident that the work is going to help
them do what they want to do. So
Sam ends the day with some rewarding progress
on their project and a newfound understanding of
quite a few topics. But this isn't yet
robust knowledge. SAM has very little fluency. If
they try to use this material seriously, they'll
probably feel like they're standing on shaky ground.
And more prosaically, they will probably forget much
of what they just learned. So I'd like
to focus on memory for a bit here.
It's worth asking, why do we sometimes remember
conceptual material and sometimes not? Often we take
a class or read a book or even
just look something up and find that a
short time later we have retained almost nothing.
But sometimes things seem to stick. Why is
that? There are some easier cases. If you're
learning something new in a domain that you
know well, each new fact connects to lots
of prior knowledge, and that creates more cues
for recall and more opportunities for reinforcement. Likewise,
if you're in some setting where you need
that knowledge every single day, you will find
that your memory becomes reliable pretty quickly. Conceptual
material like what Sam just learned doesn't usually
get reinforced every day like that. But sometimes
the world conspires to give those memories the
reinforcement it needs. Sometimes you read about a
topic, and then later in that evening, that
topic comes up in conversation with the collaborator.
You have to retrieve what you learned, and
that retrieval reinforces the memory. Then, maybe two
days later, it comes up again. You need
to recall that knowledge for a project. Each
time you reinforce the memory this way, you
forget it more slowly. Now perhaps a week
can go by and you're still likely to
remember, then maybe a few weeks, then a
few months, and so on. With a surprisingly
small number of retrievals, if they're placed close
enough to avoid forgetting, you can retain that
knowledge for months or years. By contrast, sometimes
when you learn something, it doesn't come up
again until, say, the next week. Then you
try to retrieve the knowledge, but maybe it's
already been forgotten. So you have to look
it up. Looking it up doesn't reinforce your
memory very much. And then if it doesn't
come up again for a while longer, you
may still not remember the next time. So
you have to look it up again. And
so on. The key insight here is that
it's possible to arrange the timeline for yourself.
And of course, courses sometimes do when each
problem set consistently interleaves knowledge from the prior
problem sets. But immersive learning and for that
matter, most learning usually doesn't arrange this properly,
so you usually forget a lot. What if
this kind of reinforcement were woven into the
grain of the learning region? Collaborator Michael Nielsen
and I created a quantum computing primer, Quantum
Country, to explore this idea. It's available for
free online. If you head to quantum.country, you'll
see what looks at first like a normal
book. And after a few minutes of reading,
the text is interrupted with a small set
of review questions. They're designed to take just
a few seconds each. Think the answer to
yourself. Then mark whether or not you were
able to answer correctly. And so far, these
look like simple flashcards. But as we've discussed,
even if you can answer these questions now,
that doesn't mean you'll be able to in
a few weeks or even in a few
days. So notice these markings at the bottom
of each question. These represent intervals. So you
practice the questions while you're reading the text.
Then one week later, you'll get an email
that says, Hey, you have probably started to
forget some of what you've learned. Do you
want to take five minutes to quickly review
that material again? Each time you answer successfully,
the interval increases to a few weeks and
a few months and so on. If you
begin to forget, then the intervals tighten up
to provide more reinforcement. Now you may have
seen systems like this before. Language learners and
medical students in particular often use tools called
spaced repetition memory systems to remember vocabulary and
basic facts. But the same cognitive mechanisms should
work for more complex conceptual knowledge as well.
There are 112 of these questions scattered throughout
the first chapter of the book on that
basis. Quantum country is a kind of new
medium, a mnemonic medium, integrating a spaced repetition
memory system with an explanatory text aspirationally to
make it easier for people to absorb complex
material reliably. We now have millions of practice
data points, so we can start to see
how well it's working. This plot shows the
amount of time spent practicing on the x
axis versus the reader's demonstrated retention that is,
how long a reader was able to go
without practicing and still answer at least 90%
of questions correctly. These five dots represent the
median user's first five repetitions for the first
chapter. Notice that the y axis is logarithmic,
so this straight line plot we're seeing here
represents a very nice exponential growth. Each extra
repetition, which is a constant extra time input,
yields increasing output, I. E. Retention. And so
in exchange for about an hour and a
half of total practice, the median reader was
able to correctly answer over 100 detailed questions
about the first chapter after more than two
months without any practice. Now, the first chapter
takes most readers about four hours to read
the first time. So this plot implies that
an extra overhead of less than 50% in
time commitment can yield months or years of
detailed retention. It's also interesting to explore the
counterfactual: how much would people have forgotten if
they didn't have this extra reinforcement? So as
an experiment, we removed nine questions from the
first chapter for some readers and then covertly
reinserted the questions one month later into their
practice sessions. This graph shows what happened. These
nine points represent those nine questions. The y
axis shows the percentage of readers who are
able to answer that question correctly after one
month with no support at all. You can
see that some questions are harder than others.
All the way over here on the left,
one month later, the majority of readers missed
the hardest three questions. And about thirty percent
missed the middle three, about fifteen percent missed
the easiest three. We can compare these to
another group of users who got practice while
reading the essay, like we saw in the
video a moment ago. And for any questions
they missed, they got a bonus round of
practice the next day. Then these questions disappeared
for a month, at which point we tested.
These readers performed noticeably better, though a big
chunk of them are still missing several of
these questions. Now, here's one last group, like
the previous one, except they got just one
extra round of practice a week after reading
the book. Then we tested them again at
the one month mark, and that's what you're
seeing here. Each question takes six seconds on
average to answer. So this is less than
a minute of extra practice in total for
these nine questions. But now, for all of
these questions, at least 90% of readers were
able to answer correctly. Of course, some readers
have a much easier time than others. So
the left plot here focuses on the bottom
quartile of users. That is, the readers who
missed the most questions while they were first
reading the essay. Notice that I've had to
lengthen the y axis downwards here because we
can see that without any practice at all,
most of these people in the bottom quartile
forgot two thirds of these held out questions.
If they only had in essay practice, roughly
half of them were left for getting roughly
half of the questions. And here, with just
one extra round of practice, that extra slightly
less than a minute of extra practice, even
this bottom quartile of readers performs quite well,
almost as well as the overall population. So
this is the power of practice efficient practice,
at least. And this mechanism is useful for
more than just quantum computing. In my personal
practice, I have accumulated thousands and thousands of
questions. I write questions about scientific papers, about
conversations, about lectures, about memorable meals. I will
definitely be writing a bunch about meetings I've
had here today. All of this makes my
daily life more rewarding because I know that
if I invest my intention in something, I
will internalize it indefinitely. Central to this is
the idea of a daily ritual, a vessel
for practice. Like meditation or exercise, I spend
about ten minutes a day using this memory
system. And because these exponential schedules are very
efficient, those ten minutes are enough to maintain
my memory for thousands of these questions and
to allow me to add about 40 new
questions every day. But there are some problems.
So I want to mention a few of
these problems. One is pattern matching. Once a
question comes up a few times, I may
recognize the text of the question without really
thinking about its meaning. This creates the unpleasant
feeling of parroting. But more importantly, I suspect
it often leaves my memory brittle. I'll remember
the answer, but only when queued exactly as
I've practiced it. I wish the questions had
more variability. Likewise, the questions are necessarily somewhat
abstract. When I face a real problem in
this domain, I won't always recognize what knowledge
I should use or how to adapt it
to that medium. A cognitive scientist would say
maybe that I need to acquire schemas. Now,
unless I intervene, these questions stay the same
over years. They're maintaining my memory, but ideally
they would push for further processing, increasing depth
over time. And finally, returning to this talk's
thesis, memory systems are too often disconnected from
my authentic practice, what I'm actually interested in.
Say I'm studying a topic in signal processing
for a creative project. Unless I'm very careful,
the questions that I get from that probably
won't feel very connected to my project. They
will probably feel like generic textbook questions about
signal processing. Let's return to SAM now and
see if we can apply some of these
ideas about practice and memory. So Sam did
the work to study that signal processing material.
They want to make sure it actually sticks.
How might that work? Let's say they can
install a home screen widget, which ambiently exposes
them to practice prompts drawn from highlights, questions
asked, and any other activity that the AI
can access. Sam can flip through these questions
while waiting in line or on the bus.
And notice that this isn't a generic textbook
signal processing question. It's actually grounded in the
details of Sam's brain computer interface project so
that, at least aspirationally, practice feels somewhat more
continuous with authentic doing. These synthesized prompts can
vary each time they're asked so that Sam
gets practice accessing the same idea from different
angles. The prompts get deeper and more complex
over time as Sam gets more confident with
the material. Notice also that this question isn't
so abstract. It's really about applying what Sam
has learned in a bite sized form factor
that can do anywhere. Now the widget can
also include kind of more open ended discussion
questions. Why do we think Metzger et al
downsampled their signals to 200 Hertz? Maybe it's
for performance? Here Sam gets some elaborative feedback
and extra detail to consider in their answer.
Now when questions are synthesized like this, it's
important that Sam can steer them with feedback
assuring that future questions are synthesized accordingly. Because
again, what we're trying to do here is
to make all of this not be homework,
but to actually support what Sam is really
trying to do. So far we've been looking
at bite sized questions Sam can answer while
they're out and about. But if they make
time for a longer dedicated session, we can
suggest meatier tasks like this one. And what's
more, we can move that work out of
fake practice land and into Sam's real context
here at Jupyter Notebook. Notice that the task
is still framed in terms of Sam's specific
aims rather than some generic signal processing pipeline.
Now, Sam got into this project not as
a learning exercise, but as a way to
start legitimately participating to start working with BCIs
while playing to existing strengths. So just as
our AI can help Sam find a tractable
way into this space, it can also facilitate
connections to communities of practice, here suggesting a
local neurotech meetup. So let's say Sam goes
to this meetup, meets a local scientist, and
sets up a coffee date. With permission, Sam
records the meeting, knowing the notes will probably
be helpful later. And of course, Sam ends
up surprised and intrigued quite a lot in
this conversation. Our AI can notice these moments
of surprise and help Sam metabolize them. Here,
that insight turns into a reflective practice prompt.
Four big design principles are threaded through Sam's
story. I'd like to review them now, and
for each, point out the ways that AI
has helped me think about them. First, we
bring guided learning to authentic contexts rather than
thinking about it as a separate activity. We're
able to make that happen by imagining an
AI which can perceive and act across applications
on Sam's computer. And as the audio transcript
at the end of the story here alluded
to, that action can potentially extend to activities
outside of the computer as well. The AI
can give appropriate guidance in part because, with
permission and executing locally, it can learn from
every piece of text that has ever crossed
Sam's screen, every action they've ever taken on
the computer. It can synthesize scaffolded dynamic media
so that Sam can learn by doing, but
with guidance. And then, when explicit learning activities
are necessary, we suffuse them with authentic context.
The AI in our story grounds all of
the reading and practice Sam's doing in their
actual aims. It helps Sam match the learning
activities to their depth of interest. And it
draws on important moments that happen while Sam
is doing, like insights from that coffee meeting
at the end or questions asked while implementing
parts of the project. And it brings those
moments into study activities. Besides connecting these two
domains, we can also strengthen each of them.
So our AI suggests tractable ways for Sam
to just dive in to a new interest.
And it helps Sam build connections with a
community of practice. On the other side, when
we are spending time in explicit learning activities,
let's make sure that they actually work. So
our AI creates a dynamic vessel for ongoing
reinforcement. It varies what's in that vessel over
time so that knowledge transfers more effectively to
real situations. And it doesn't just maintain memory.
It increases depth of understanding over time. Now
I'd like to give two cheers for chatbot
tutors. Most discussion of AI and education at
the moment revolves around the framing of chatbot
tutors. And I think this framing correctly identifies
something really wonderful about language models, which is
that they are so good at answering long
tail questions if the user can articulate the
question clearly enough. And if the user is
trying to perform a routine task, chatbot tutors
can often diagnose problems and find good ways
to get the user unstuck. And that's great.
But when I look at others' visions of
chatbot tutors through the broader framing that we've
been discussing, they're clearly missing a lot of
what I want. I think these visions often
fail to take seriously just how much a
real tutor can really do. Large part, I
think that's because the authors of these visions
are usually thinking about educating, something they want
to do to others rather than learning, something
they want for themselves. Now a sad truth
about the world is that postdocs and graduate
students are incredibly underpaid. So it is actually
surprisingly affordable to get an expert tutor for
a technical topic I care about. But if
I hire a real tutor as an adult
to learn about signal processing, I will tell
them about my interest in brain computer interfaces.
And I will expect them to ground every
conversation in that purpose. My goal here is
not to learn signal processing. It is to
participate in the creation of brain computer interfaces.
Chatbot tutors are not interested in what I'm
trying to do. There's a set of things
they think I should know or should be
able to do, and they view me as
defective until I say the right things. If
I hire a real tutor, I might ask
them to sit beside me as I try
to actually do something involving the material. They
can see everything I'm doing, see what I'm
pointing at. And if it's appropriate, I can
scoot over and they can drive for a
minute. By comparison, the typical conception of a
chatbot tutor lives in a windowless box, and
it can only see whatever's provided on scraps
of paper passed under the door. It can
have no effect on the outside world. My
goal here is to dive in, to immerse
myself, to start doing the thing. But these
chatbot tutors can't join me where the action
is. So interactions with them create distance and
pull me away from immersion. If I hire
a real tutor, we'll build a relationship. With
every session, they'll learn more about me: my
interests, my strengths, my confusions. Chatbot tutors, on
the other hand, as typically conceived, are transactional,
amnesiac. Now, we can fix that as context
windows get longer. But that relationship is also
important to my emotional connection. If I view
conversation with my tutor as a kind of
peripheral participation in the community I'm hoping to
enter, an interaction between a novice in the
discipline and an expert in the discipline, then
tutoring just becomes part of doing the thing.
But if my interaction with the tutor is
transactional, that will tend to make my tutoring
sessions feel like learning time, separate from doing
the thing. Finally, people talk about how Aristotle
was a tutor for Alexander the Great. But
what's most valuable about having Aristotle as your
tutor is not that he can diagnose misconceptions,
but rather that he's modeling the practices and
values of an earnest, intellectually engaged adult. He's
demonstrating how and why he thinks about problems
his taste and the discipline. The high growth
periods that we love transform the way that
we see the world. They reshape our identity.
In my demo earlier, I showed a chatbot,
but it didn't really work like most chatbot
tutors I described. It focused all its actions
on the user's interests rather than bringing its
own agenda. It wasn't trapped in a little
text box. It could see and take action
in the context of authentic use. It can
communicate through dynamic media. It had a deep
memory drawing on everything I'd ever seen and
written. So in some ways, the system I've
shown is more like a real tutor. But
in my ideal world, I don't want a
tutor. I want to legitimately participate in some
new discipline and learn what I need as
much as possible from interaction with real practitioners.
So I view the role of the augmented
learning system as helping me act on my
creative interests, ideally by letting me just dive
in and start doing as much as possible.
That will often mean scaffolding connections to and
interactions with communities of practice. One theme for
this Design at Large series is the ethics
of AI and its likely enormous social impacts.
So let me say, I am tremendously worried
about those impacts in the general case. I
am worried about despots locking in their powers.
Lowering the bar to bioweapons, economic chaos. I
would not feel comfortable ethically with researching more
powerful frontier models myself. But within the narrower
domain of learning that we've been discussing, my
main moral concern is that we will end
up trapped in a sad, narrow future. A
condescending authoritarian frame dominates the narrative in the
future of learning. I'll caricature it to make
the point. With AI, we can finally take
all of these defective kids that don't know
the stuff they're supposed to know and get
them to know it. You know, that's personalized
learning. The AI lets us precisely identify where
the kids are wrong or where they're ignorant
and fix them. Then we can fill their
heads to the brim with what's good for
them. By contrast, the famous bicycle for the
mind metaphor has no agenda other than the
one that you bring. It just lets you
reach a wider range of destinations than you
could on foot, and it makes the journey
more fun, maybe particularly if you're biking along
with some friends. The bicycle asks, Where do
you want to go? Of course, that question
assumes your destination is well known and charted
on some map. But those most rewarding, high
growth experiences are often centered on a creative
project. You're trying to get somewhere no one's
ever gone before to reach the frontier and
then starting charting links into the unknown. Learning
in service of creation. It's a dynamic, context
laden kind of learning. It's about more than
just efficiency and correctness. More than just faster
gears on a bike. And that's the kind
of learning that I feel an almost moral
imperative to help create. Thank you. I think
we maybe have time for questions. We have
some time for questions. Love to talk. Thank
you. I really like a lot of what
you said. One thing that I'm curious about
is you mentioned that you add questions to
your own, like for your space repetition routine,
you add questions every And you said you
add 40 questions a day. So I guess
what I'm wondering is, in your example you
took one topic, but many people are often
learning multiple things. And very often we don't
know that we want to learn something until
we've built some momentum. So my question is
broadly, how do you decide what questions you
want to add and how do you plan
for your future self in some way? Right,
right. First, should clarify. So I don't, in
fact, add 40 questions a day. That is
the carrying capacity of my practice time. Ten
minutes will support 40 a day added. In
practice, it ends up like some kind of
Poisson distribution or something. But how do I
do this? How do I plan appropriately? You
can't know what's going to be important to
you in advance. Sometimes you can, but in
general you can't. So the system needs to
be resilient to that. The way that that
works right now is very coarse. You can
delete questions that you add if you decide
that you don't like them. I view this
as an interface problem of sorts. I think
ideally you don't need to plan for what's
going to be important. You can just do
stuff, and stuff will get reinforced, and you
can steer more of this, less of that.
And I think that's an interesting challenge in
interface design to create systems that behave more
like that and less like these kind of
discrete destructive actions destroy this question. Andy, I
love that vision over here for that. Especially
liked how you talked about how the AI
could reinforce things you've learned and challenge you.
It could integrate you with communities. Love all
those ideas. What I didn't get, and maybe
I guess I walked in two minutes late,
was that an actual demo that you've created?
No. Or is that just a vision for
how you want it to be in the
future? Yeah, I'm sorry for not making that
clear. If wasn't, I thought it looked sufficiently
fake. No, this is concept art. Thank you
for asking. There is, I suppose, a grand
tradition in our discipline of smoke and mirror
concept art. I have been using this talk
as an excuse to figure out what I
think I want to do with respect to
AI and learning. And so these drawings are
part of that process. I was curious, I
wanted to follow-up on the question about sometimes
I don't know what I want. And I
think if you look at some of the
more Montessori or Papert esque learning experiences, when
you know when you have like, you know,
if you just said school is gonna be
whatever you're interested in forever. Yeah. It has
lots of benefits. A challenge is that there
are topics that I might benefit from, and
I loved your paternalistic caricature as being that's
what we don't want. There is a, like,
the psychologist Dan Gilbert defines the happiness challenge
as the delta between our current self and
what our future self would have wanted us
to do. I can, like a nice thing
about a good tutor, your talk for example,
is I'm learning things that will be valuable
to me in the future that at 04:00
today I wouldn't have thought to ask for.
Right. Yeah, yeah, I think this is totally
right. I think the way that I think
about this is a kind of unbundling. Normally
when we think about schooling, we ask schooling
to do two jobs: one, to decide what
is it that I should know and then
two, to cause me to know it. I
think there are all kinds of cultural institutions
that help us figure out what is it
that we want to know. In the example
that I showed, Sam figures out that they
may be interested in brain computer interfaces through
Twitter. If you are in San Diego, you
can decide to attend this talk. Ideally, it
doesn't feel like schooling. Hope it doesn't feel
like schooling. And you can decide, oh, maybe
I'm interested in studying some of the cognitive
science that Andy mentioned. So I think there's
a variety of cultural institutions and venues and
channels we can use to help deliver that
first part, and then possibly use separate tools
for the other part. Good afternoon. Should we
be planning for the day where we won't
have to work due to artificial intelligence, automation,
computers and robotics? Your thoughts. Thank you. I'm
so grateful that you asked that question because
I spent a month preparing for this talk,
writing another version of this talk that I
didn't give that was called What's Worth Learning
in the Age of Strong AI? And it
didn't end up aligning, so I didn't end
up getting to present any of it. I'll
give you a piece of that. Say that
you are a composer, and you have some
very vague idea about a new cello concerto
that you would like to write. I claim
that you can't just ask the AI to
write it for you, because you don't know
what it is that you want. In fact,
you discover what the cello concerto is supposed
to be through the process of composing it.
Likewise, when we talk about software. An interesting
thing about software is that it feels so
messy and unpleasant so much of the time.
We want a particular piece of software. We
ask some people to go start making it
for us. And then they come back 3x
over time, 3x over budget, one third x
quality. Why is software so hard? Why can't
we just tell the system what we want
and get the thing out the other side?
And it turns out we actually do have
that kind of technology. It's called formal modeling.
We've had it for a long time. And
I think the reason why it's not more
widely used is that that's not how we
think about designing software. Namely, we figure out
what software we want in the process of
making it. It's continuously negotiated. It's contingent. So
I think there are many activities in human
life that have that characteristic where we can't
actually appropriately specify what it is that we
want to the model. We can't externalize it
or make it legible. We have to participate
in the creation of the thing. And then
we can ask, what do we need to
know in order to participate in that creation?
What are the dynamics of that participation? How
much injection of involvement is necessary to steer
appropriately. And I have some thoughts on that,
but I should probably move on to the
next question. So yes, I hope that's somewhat
helpful. Yeah. Hi. So with my question, I
was thinking about how with the AI, what
you have is you like say that AI
advancement will lead to some dystopian feature where
we find people the knowledge and then we
force them to know it. But who's to
say that that is still already happening to
some extent with curriculum right now without AI?
Isn't necessarily a concern as much as other
things, I think. But beyond that, I think
it's kind of like, because that problem can
happen, like when we don't look at the
root problem, it can happen in the most
immersive learning. In ethnic studies class, you can
still end up restricting someone to that specific
topic instead of connecting identity as much as
you would in say a math class or
something like that. So what if you could
implement that like sort of, I guess to
give another example of how in the other
hand, you can do something really well, even
in a math class, for example, if you
look at the higher concepts or if someone
explains it really well, or in like say
neuroscience and those sorts of fields, there might
be content that is above the cost that
is interesting that would make someone more interested
and able to learn the class themselves, especially
if it connects to their own prior knowledge.
So what would you think if like, guess,
how do you think you would implement this
into like a learning system to take advantage
of it like say Canvas? Do you think
that you could do it in a way
that you could customize in part assignments to
synthesize the students' interests and the teachers' intent
to teach people necessary content and teach people
the content that they want to know in
a way that they might be doing more,
but ultimately less because it's easier for them
if they know the context and can connect
to it. Cool. I think I followed. So
to your first question, yeah, I think you're
right. That part of the talk was part
of a complaint about schooling in general. And
AI doesn't necessarily make that worse, though it
may continue trends I don't like. To your
second point, or your second question, I have
deliberately avoided the question of schooling in this
talk. And I did that for a reason.
I think it makes everything very complicated. So
in terms of integrating into Canvas, I think
it's a very difficult position to start. I
have done a bunch of collaborations these past
few years with professors in higher ed teaching
large classes. And what I experience again and
again is just an enormous fraction of the
student body that is just fundamentally not engaged
with the class. And I don't think any
amount of UI chicanery or AI involvement is
going to change that. And I think I
basically don't want to put myself into that
problem solving situation. In some sense, that's actually
why I left Khan Academy. Hey, Andy. My
name's Taylor. I'm a software engineer at Replit.
So I would say, in some sense, my
salary depends on some of the ideas in
your talk, which is to say that AI
can be an effective tool for teaching difficult
concepts like computer programming. So my question to
you is, have you seen any inklings of
this being true, the ideas in your talk
of the delta between something like a GBT,
being a teacher, and what you're outlining? Have
you seen any of those ideas actually start
to play out? Or do you think this
is purely speculative with what we have today?
Yeah. I think we're seeing a lot of
hints at what I described already. So lots
of people already use GPT to just dive
into stuff. It's missing that universal IO. It's
missing the billion token context window. And yet
it's still already able to deliver some value,
which is great. I think missing also that
the bridge to textbooks again and again, I've
been talking to people not that textbooks are
the answer. Here I'm using textbook as synecdoche
for some kind of deeper, more focused learning
experience. I talk to a lot of people
who get a really good start with GPT
because they can get the couple sentence answers,
and that lets them make a certain amount
of progress. And that's really motivating. You can
kick up some momentum, and momentum is very
powerful. But they hit a wall. And I
had a section that I cut talking about
programming. I think it's really interesting that in
programming, a lot of people can manage to
self teach programming. And in part, I think
that's because of things like syntax, for instance,
is reinforced every time you sit down to
program. Obscure facets of syntax, which are not
reinforced regularly, like maybe your macro library or
whatever, people do tend to forget. But again
and again you meet people who are like,
I don't understand how pointers work though. That
asterisk can see. It's like it's a bridge
too far. So there's a certain amount of
conceptual understanding that seems acquirable with the frontier
of self learning tools that are widely available.
And then as soon as you run into
difficult conceptual territory, it's just a cliff. So
I think we're seeing glimmers of progress in
this vein, and perhaps this talk will inspire
people to try some more stuff. Hello. Hi.
So my question is, to what extent do
you think the desire to learn comes from
the innate pleasure of learning or specific to
whatever material the person learning is? And to
what extent do you think the desire to
learn comes from some sort of use of
the material the person learns? And do you
think making this distinction is important to the
design of systems for learning? Yeah, probably. This
is a good question, and it's something that
I don't emphasize perhaps quite clearly enough. In
the example story that I gave, everything is
motivated by this persona, Sam, wanting to do
a project. It's very concrete. It's out in
the world. That doesn't mean that curiosity based
learning is any less legitimate or that I
think any of the claims don't apply. It's
just that what authentic practice and legitimate participation
looks like is different. So in mathematics, for
instance, which may be very abstract, it may
not be like a project I'm trying to
do as I learn about algebraic topology or
something like that, What legitimate practice looks like
is engaging with problems and questions in algebraic
topology that I find authentically interesting. And as
soon as you make that move, rather than
thinking about, well, I need to learn algebraic
topology in order to do this four d
renderer that I was working on for a
game project, if you think about it from
the perspective of authentic curiosity, then I think
much of what I'm saying applies. However, there
are issues with rendering legible the nature of
the curiosity and the interest to the AI.
A lot of what's happening is internal, and
that may make a lot of what I'm
describing somewhat more difficult. The nature of relation
to community of practices changes somewhat, although not
completely. So it's a partial answer, I suppose.
Is there someone with the microphone? Hi, Jonathan.
Hi, Andy. This is great. Love the deepness
of the reflective practice you're demonstrating for us
I think, is it Aristotle that said, give
me a child till the age of seven
and I'll show you the man? And when
you bring up the ethical issues, this is
what scares me the most is for an
AI tutor. Have you thought about adversarial tutoring?
Given that we're going to have, if we
do, if we hypothesize AI tutors are out
there and that we have the schooling industrial
complex producing them, how do we counteract them?
I love that. It's like manufacturing the mythical
and often in the teaching community maligned Robin
Williams character, the teacher film whose name I'm
forgetting. I haven't thought about that. It's a
lovely provocation. I feel uncomfortable with an activist
framing, where it's like, I need to get
out there because I know what's best for
the people or for the kids. They're doing
it wrong. I'm going make a thing that's
going to put fluoride in the drinking water
so that they end up in the right
spot. I'm uncomfortable with that. I feel much
more comfortable saying, well, I can make a
thing that lets you pursue the things you're
interested in, if you would like that. That
feels less complicated. So I will need to
think about your question. Find it very provocative.
Thank you. Hey, Andy. I have a question
for you about this idea of that AI
tutor. I'm wondering, is there a limit to
what kind of disciplines that that course kind
of technology could be applied to? I've always
deemed myself as being book smarts but not
street smarts. That's a great question. One of
the inspirations for this talk was trying to
exorcise myself of the young ladies illustrated primer.
I don't know if that phrase means anything
to you. Ah, that's a shame. Okay, so
an inspiration for many educational technologists is this
book called The Diamond Age by Neal Stephenson,
which depicts a sort of far future utopian
learning environment. It's like a magical book that
transforms a young girl's life. And one of
the things that's interesting about this book that
I think is underappreciated is that it is
almost exclusively focused on street smarts. So this
book teaches her martial arts and getting out
of sticky situations and persuading people and so
on. And I chose not to deal with
any of that. I think the way that
I would handle much of that looks very
different. And I'm afraid I haven't really thought
about how I would handle that. It's difficult
to think about authentic practice of street smarts.
Like what does that look like? Is it
like I'm going to go to a bad
neighborhood and like look purposeful as I walk?
And then but that's not exactly authentic practice
because like you went to this neighborhood just
for that purpose. So I find myself confused
thinking about this. And I find myself most
comfortable when I think about people who enjoy
practicing martial arts not as a kind of
preparatory measure for imagined conflict in the future,
but rather because they like the way it
makes their body feel. They like their community
at the dojo. And so if we start
thinking about that, like, oh, it would be
fun to do some exercise with others, then
I think some of the same techniques can
help. So you can probably use tools to
help you find an appropriate community and perhaps
to help you practice appropriately. I play the
piano. And that's not exactly book smart, but
one can use practice systems, vessels for practice
like I've described, to orchestrate piano practice. You
can imagine extending that to martial arts. I
don't know about other kinds of street smarts,
but perhaps. Thanks for the question. Let's thank
Andy, and I'm sure he'll stay around a
few little. Thanks everybody. Appreciate you.